# The Inverse of Fractal Generation - Using a Convolutional Neural Network to Predict the Julia Constant from an Image of a Julia Set

## Abstract

We consider a particular kind of fractal, Julia sets, which are defined by a particular complex number known as a Julia constant. A convolutional neural network was trained using Adam stochastic gradient descent to approximate the Julia constant, given a finite resolution image of a Julia set. K-fold cross validation was used to optimize hyperparameters. The dataset was generated by us. Our results suggest that a reasonably accurate approximation of a Julia set can be computed given a finite representation of a Julia set. However, several factors such as limited resolution and image boundaries may mean that our results are not applicable in general.

## Components

The project contains three components.
- Data-generation - A C++ program to generate Julia fractals. Generate the whole dataset with `make` from the `data-generation` directory (size, number of iteration, escape threshold... may be set in `Fractals.cpp`). Additional command line parameters may be used for generating individual samples.
- CNN - The main convolutional neural network model used in the paper is in in the `cnn` directory. Run with `python3 cnn/main.py`.
- Autoencoder - The autencoder model for dimensionality reduction is in the `autoencoder` directory. Run with `python3 autoencoder/main.py`. 
- Plotting - R and python scripts for the plots of the paper are in the `data-graphing` directory.